soldering jump rings closed is a basic
skill in jewelry manufacturing and
repair here we discuss gold and sterling
silver jump rings if you need to solder
brass or other base metal rings low
temperatures honors and soldering
techniques would be used there are two
methods available to deposit solder into
the joint applying paste solder or
placing a snippet of solder in the joint
using a solder pick the smaller the jump
ring the more difficult depositing the
solder on the joint becomes as we do not
want the solder to flow anywhere outside
of the joint note that very little
solder is needed to close a jump ring
this guide covers the typical task of
adding a jump ring and a clasp to a
chain tab the tools needed are two flat
nose or needle nose pliers jump rings
fire code flux solder or solder paste a
solder pad a soldering torch a soldering
pick interlocking tweezers a pickling
solution eye protection and optionally
polishing tools the first step will be
to assemble the pieces together using
your pliers gently twist the jump ring
open sideways just enough to allow it to
slip onto the tab and the clasp
after installing the parts needed twist
a jump ring back together so the seam is
totally closed due to gold and silver
having memory or the desire to maintain
a position you will probably need to
over close the joint slightly pass where
the joint is aligned and allow the metal
to spring back a bit for a perfect joint
there should be a slight tension holding
the seam closed soldering is not made to
bridge gaps next fire coat the piece
wherever it will be heated to learn more
about this process check out this
article soldering 101 fire coating will
prevent heat damage to affected parts of
the chain and clasp in this case we will
fire coat the jump ring and about one
inch of the chain with the tab and clasp
after the fire coat is covering the
parts that will be exposed to heat apply
the flux only to the area where you want
the solder to flow no flux is needed if
you're using soldering paste because it
is already mixed into the compound the
next step will be to apply your solder
to the joint we will cover the two most
common options and whichever type of
solder you use remember the joint must
be as isolated as possible from the rest
of the piece this is to make sure the
torch doesn't melt or discolor unwanted
parts of the chain either rest the chain
on your solder pad with the joint on top
or use interlocking tweezers to hold it
in position to apply your torch flame if
you choose to use a solder pick
technique the first step will be to heat
the piece of solder on your solder pad
until it balls up
pick it up on the end of your solder
pick and then place it directly on the
seam of your jump ring as you're heating
it heat the jump ring until the solder
flows evenly through the seam the heat
from your flame will draw the solder to
where you want it solder flows towards
the hottest point if you use paste
solder apply the pesado directly to the
joint and gently heat until the solder
flows into the seam the next step will
be to pickle the work and then rinse it
in water lastly you may choose to polish
the newly soldered portion of the jump
ring usually very little polishing is
needed a hard rubber wheel is usually
sufficient to brighten up the small
amount of solder used you can now enjoy
wearing your jewelry with pride knowing
that you made it yourself for more
jewelry making guides visit
esslinger.com Learning Center today
you